linux networking commands



ifconfig - displays network interface configuration.
ip - displays and configures IP network addresses.
route - displays and modifies the IP routing table.
netstat - displays network connections, routing tables, and statistics.
ping - sends an ICMP Echo request to a target host or IP address to check for connectivity.
traceroute - displays the path that network packets take from one host to another.
nslookup - queries DNS servers for information about domain names or IP addresses.
dig - similar to nslookup, but provides more detailed information.
ssh - secure remote access to a Linux system or network device.
telnet - unsecure remote access to a Linux system or network device.
ftp - file transfer protocol used to transfer files over a network.
wget - command-line utility for downloading files from the internet.
curl - command-line utility for transferring data from or to a server.
iptables - command-line firewall tool to configure and manage network traffic.
tcpdump - network packet analyzer for capturing and analyzing network traffic.


linux copy commands?

cp - This is the most common command used to copy files and directories. Syntax: cp [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

mv - This command is used to move files and directories from one location to another. Syntax: mv [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

rsync - This command is used to copy files and directories between two systems over the network. Syntax: rsync [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

scp - This command is used to copy files and directories between two systems over the network using SSH. Syntax: scp [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

dd - This command is used to copy and convert files between devices or files. Syntax: dd [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

tar - This command is used to create archives and extract files from them. Syntax: tar [OPTIONS] SOURCE

cpio - This command is used to create and extract archives. Syntax: cpio [OPTIONS] SOURCE

cpdup - This command is used to copy files and directories with permissions, ownership, and timestamps. Syntax: cpdup [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

gcp - This command is used to copy files and directories with progress indicator. Syntax: gcp [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION

fcp - This command is used to copy files and directories with fast and parallel transfer. Syntax: fcp [OPTIONS] SOURCE DESTINATION






shell script  commands?


echo - Display output to the terminal
cd - Change directory
ls - List files in a directory
mkdir - Create a new directory
touch - Create a new file
rm - Remove a file or directory
cp - Copy a file or directory
mv - Move or rename a file or directory
grep - Search for a pattern in a file or output
sed - Perform text transformations on a file or input
awk - Process and analyze text data
chmod - Change file permissions
ps - Display currently running processes
kill - Terminate a running process
ping - Test network connectivity
curl - Transfer data from or to a server
ssh - Securely connect to a remote server
tar - Create or extract compressed archive files
find - Search for files and directories
diff - Compare two files or directories.


